Build docs reorg (#1519)
LLNL/serac: src/docs/sphinx/build_guide/build_tpls.rst

.. ## Copyright (c) Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and
.. ## other Smith Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details.
.. ##
.. ## SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

.. _build_tpls-label:

======================================
Building Smith's Third-party Libraries
======================================

It is now time to build Smith's Third-party Libraries (TPLs) and optionally our Developer Tools.

.. _devtools-label:

Building Developer Tools
------------------------

.. note::
  This section can be skipped if you are not developing Smith and contributing back to our repository. It

>   can also be skipped if you are apart of the ``smithdev`` LC Linux group, as it will be automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can also be skipped if you are a part of the ``smithdev`` LC Linux group, as it will be automatically
```

    $ scripts/llnl/build_devtools.py --directory=<devtool/build/path>
    $ scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --project-json=scripts/spack/devtools.json --spack-env-file=scripts/spack/devtools_configs/$SYS_TYPE/spack.yaml --prefix=../path/to/install

For other machines utilize the Spack Environment created in the previous :ref:`setup_system-label` step:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --project-json=scripts/spack/devtools.json --spack-env-file=<created/spack.yaml> --prefix=../path/to/install

For example on **Ubuntu 24.04**:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --project-json=scripts/spack/devtools.json --spack-env-file=scripts/spack/configs/linux_ubuntu_24/spack.yaml --prefix=../path/to/install

After the Developer Tools have been successfully installed, you have two options to use them in the following step to build
your TPLs.

1. Alter your Spack Environment by adding the following lines with the correct paths and versions:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      cppcheck:
        version: [2.9]
        buildable: false
        externals:
        - spec: cppcheck@2.9
          prefix: /path/to/devtools_install/cppcheck-2.9

> 1. Add a Spack upstream to the ``uberenv`` commands below with this command line option ``--upstream=../path/to/devtools_install``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add a Spack upstream to the ``uberenv`` commands below with this command line option ``--upstream=../path/to/devtools_install``.
```

+-----------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| rocm            | False   | Enable ROCM support (requires ``amdgpu_target=<number>)``     |
+-----------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| amdgpu_target   | N/A     | Set ROCM target (for example, ``gfx942``), can be single or   |
|                 |         | comma delimited                                               |
+-----------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::
  Spack variants come in two flavors: Boolean, which is indicated in the spec by ``+`` for
  true and ``~`` for false, and Multi-value variants, which must start with a space and require a value
  after the ``=`` sign (for example, ``+cuda cuda_arch=80``).

.. note::
   If you are building on LC, using our provided Spack Environments, and do not have access to the ``smithdev`` linux group,
   you cannot use our prebuilt Developer Tools referenced in the Spack Environment files. You will need to turn off the
   devtool variant by adding ``~devtools`` to your Spack spec via the Spack or uberenv command line.

> **TPL Spack variants:**

Reviewer 2: i have a feeling these might get out of date but we just need to remember to update this as we do tpl update/ changes.

Author: Yea.. we could create a script as part of the docs build to generate these. I debated having the code snippet from the spack recipe but its not as readable.

| strumpack   | True    | Build MFEM TPL with Strumpack, a direct linear solver library |
+-------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| sundials    | True    | Build MFEM TPL with SUNDIALS nonlinear/ODE solver support     |
+-------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| tribol      | True    | Build Tribol, an interface physics library                    |
+-------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| umpire      | True    | Build with portable memory access support                     |
+-------------+---------+---------------------------------------------------------------+

If successful, you will see two things. The first is what we call a host-config. It is all the CMake
inputs you need to build Smith. This file will be a new CMake file in the current directory with your machine
name, system type, and compiler, for example ``mycomputerlinux-ubuntu24.04-skylake-clang@19.1.1.cmake``.
The second will be output from Spack that ends in this:

.. code-block:: bash

    ==> smith: Executing phase: 'initconfig'

>     ==> Updating view at /my/prefix/spack_env/.spack-env/view

Reviewer 2: im not sure if the "view" line is true anymore

Author: it can if you have devtools enabled.
